## The Stack

- **Models:** Relational DB Server, Sequelize(ORM) with Postgresql(DB)
- **Controllers:** Express.js Middleware/Routing
- **Views:** React-Bootstrap Front End
  - Bootstrap-react package, documentation create component
- Stripe for Processing donations
  - search elements examples to find those payment interface plugins
    - provides pop up interface and api
    - no need to handle credit card data
    - does have fees (check what they are)
    - other alternatives include Patreon and Paypal

## Note on Shopping Frameworks

There are lots of open Source shoppin frameworks, but those are for if you want to implement a shopping-cart experience which is not what I want here. Not going to overengineer the first step to expand upon it later. Instead, I'll implement the design to the specification of the minimim viable product--serve a grid of books with donation buttons underneath.

## Note on OCR

Note that OCR technologies are based on english, so there will have to be a lot of cleanup. Even if the OCR gets 80% of letters right, you still need to go through and correct the other 20% by hand.

## Project Timeline
- Networking event at CTP on April 17th. Finish barebones of project by then (no scanning no ocr do your best)
- Projects due May 9th-16th
- Demo night will feature 20-30 projects (instead of all 60 students)
- Participants of demo night will be chosen based on the completeness of the project and how presentable it is.

## Note on Ubuntu Services 

Ubuntu has a program called `services`  which is the  command line interface to another program, `upstart`.  Services issues commands to upstart which manages the daemons (server applications) running on the system. Upstart used to be called `systemd` but Ubuntu changed their daemon manager. 

- to find out which services are running type `service --status-all`
- to close a particular service type `service postgresql stop`but replace `postgresql` with whatever program you want to terminate.
- to see which programs are hogging system resources use `top` or `htop`. Top comes with most systems, but htop has a nicer interface. 

